.ve-header "Diary #1" https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA001 "Menlo Park N.J. July 12, 1885" pct:30,30,60,40 center sticky - Home - About==placeholder=={Menlo Park N.J. July 12, 1885}==placeholder=={Menlo Park N.J. July 12, 1885}[]

# Diary #1 

## Menlo Park N.J. July 12, 1885

### Page 1

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA001 left

Awakened at 5:15 am. My eyes were embarassed by the sunbeams—turned my back to them and tried to take another dip into oblivion succeeded awakened at 7 a.m. thought of ==Mina=={Q22087338}, ==Miss Daisy=={description="Grace 'Daisy' Gaston (1859– 1940), daughter of John M. Gaston, a prominent Indianapolis physician, was Ezra and Lillian Gilliland’s guest at their rented summer home during Edison’s earlier visit from late June to early July. She was still there, perhaps according to a plan to introduce Edison to eligible young women, when he returned on July 14."}, and ==Mamma G=={description="Lillian Gilliland, the daughter of Sidney Johnson, a carpenter and machinist of Madison, Ind., became Ezra Gilliland’s secondwife in 1880. According to Edison’s daughter Marion, she played a central role in introducing Edison to eligible young women.Two of them were Daisy Gaston and Louise Igoe, both of Indianapolis."} put all 3 in my mental kaledescope to obtain a ==new combination=={description="Francis Galton pioneered composite photography, the technique of superimposing portrait photographs of individuals in order to draw out common physical traits (cf. Doc. 2852). Galton thought these common features might be markers of hereditary psychological traits or susceptibility to certain diseases. He therefore began making composite portraits of criminals and later made them of people suffering from various physical and mental illnesses. Galton published works on the making and interpretation of these portraits in 1878 and 1879."} a la ==Galton=={Q191026}. took Mina as a basis, tried to improve her beauty by discarding and adding certain features borrowed from Daisy and Mamma G. a sort of ==Raphaelized beauty=={Q5597}, got into it too deep, mind flew away and I went to sleep again. Awakened at 8:15 am. Powerful itching of my head, lots of white dry dandruff what is this d-mnable material. Perhaps it is the dust from the dry literary matter I've crowded into my noddle lately Its nomadic. gets all over my coat, must read about it in the Encyclopedia. Smoking too much makes me nervous must lasso my natural tendency to acquire such habits holding heavy cigar constantly in my mouth has deformed my upper lip, it has sort of a Havanna curl. Arose at 9 oclock came down stairs expecting twas too late for breakfast twas'nt. could'nt eat much, nerves of stomach too nicotinny. The roots of tobacco plants must go clear through to hell. Satans principal agent ==Dyspepsia=={Q653971}

### Page 2

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA001 seq=2 left

must have charge of this branch of the vegitable kingdom. It has just occured to me that the brain may digest certain portions of the food, say the etherial part, as well as the stomach perhaps dandruff is the excreta of the mind—the quantity of this material being directly proportional to the amount of reading one indulges in. A book on German metaphysics would thus easily ruin a dress suit. After breakfast start reading ==Hawthorne's English Note Book=={description="Edison may have acquired the 1880 edition of Passages from the English Note-Books of Nathaniel Hawthorne, which contained two volumes in one. It is also possible that he was reading the volume containing the Passages that was included in the edition of The Works of Nathaniel Hawthorne, published between 1882 and 1884, that was edited by George Parsons Lathrop and his wife Rose Hawthorne."} dont think much of it. perhaps Im a literary barbarian and am not eyet educated up to the point of appreciating fine writing 90 per cent of his book is descriptive of old churches and graveyards and coronors He and ==Geo Selwyn=={Q427554} ought to have been appointed perpetual coroners of London. Two fine things in the book were these. ==Hawthorne=={Q69339} shewing to little ==Rose Hawthorne=={Q6917390} a big live lobster told her it was a very ugly thing and would bite everybody, whereupon she asked "if the first one God made, bit him" again "Ghostland is beyond the jurisdiction of veracity" I think freckles on the skin are due to some salt of Iron, sunlight brings them out by reducing them from high to low state of oxidation perhaps with a powerful magnet applied for some time, and then with proper chemicals, these mud holes of beauty might be removed. ==Dot=={description="Marion Estelle (Dot) Edison (1873-1965) was the oldest child of TAE and Mary Stilwell. Edison gave her the nickname 'Dot' as a child. Between 1883 and 1888 she attended private schools in New York and Massachusetts.  In 1889, she left school to join her step-aunts Mary Emily Miller and Grace Miller in Paris. She came back to the United States in 1892 but returned to Europe the following year. She married Oscar Oeser, a German army officer, on October 1, 1895 and lived in Germany for the next thirty years. Their marriage began to deteriorate during World War I. They divorced in 1921. She returned to the United States in 1925 and lived first in East Orange, New Jersey and then in Norwalk, Connecticut."} is

### Page 3

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA001 seq=3 left

very busy cleaning the abode of our deaf and dumb parrot she has fed it tons of edibles, and never got a sound out of it. This bird has the taciturnity of a statue, and the dirt producing capacity of a drove of buffalo. This is by far the nicest day of this season, neither too hot or too cold. it blooms on the apex of perfection an Edenday Good day for an angels picnic. They could lunch on the smell of flowers and new mown hay, drink the moisture of the air, and dance to the hum of bees. Fancy the ==Soul of Plato=={Q5493077} astride of a butterfly, riding around ==Menlo Park=={Q20657326} with a lunch basket. Nature is bound to smile somehow. Holzer has a little dog which just came on the veranda. The face of this dog was a dismal as a bust of ==Dante=={Q1067}, but the dog wagged its tail continuously This is evidently the way a dog laughs I wonder if dogs ever go up to flowers and smell them I think not flowers were never intended for dogs, and perhaps only incidentally for man, evidently ==Darwin=={Q1035} has it right They make themselves pretty to attract the insect world who are the transportation agents of their pollen, pollen freight via Bee line There is a bumblebees nest somewhere near this veranda, several times one came near me some little information (acquired experimentally) I obtained when a

### Page 4

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA001 seq=4 left

small boy causes me to lose all delight in watching the navigation of this armed flower burglar. Had dinner at 3 p.m. ruins of a chicken, rice pudding I eat too quick at 4 oclock ==Dot=={description="Marion Estelle (Dot) Edison (1873-1965) was the oldest child of TAE and Mary Stilwell. Edison gave her the nickname 'Dot' as a child. Between 1883 and 1888 she attended private schools in New York and Massachusetts. In 1889, she left school to join her step-aunts Mary Emily Miller and Grace Miller in Paris. She came back to the United States in 1892 but returned to Europe the following year. She married Oscar Oeser, a German army officer, on October 1, 1895 and lived in Germany for the next thirty years. Their marriage began to deteriorate during World War I. They divorced in 1921. She returned to the United States in 1925 and lived first in East Orange, New Jersey and then in Norwalk, Connecticut."} came around with her horse "Colonel" and took me out riding beautiful roads saw 10 acre lot full cultivated red raspberries, "A burying ground" so to speak.got this execrable pun off on Dot Dot says she is going to write a novel, already started on she has the judgement of a girl of 16 although only 12 We passed through the town of ==Metuchen=={Q1021527}, this town was named after an Indian chief, they called him Metuchen the chief of the rolling lands, the country being undulating. Dot laughed heartily when I told her about a church being a heavenly fire escape. Returned from drive at 5 pm commenced read short sketches of life's ==Macauley=={Q315989} ==Sidney Smith=={Q6182166}, ==Dickens=={Q5686} & ==Charlotte Bronte=={Q127332}. Macauley when only 4 years ago omnivorous reader, used book language in his childish conversation. when 5 years old, lady spilled some hot coffee on his legs, after a while she asked him if he was better he replied "Madam the agony has abated" Macauleys mother must have built his mind several years before his body. Sidney Smiths flashes of wit are perfect to call them chesnuts would be literary blasphemy

### Page 5

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA001 seq=5 left

They are wandering jewlets to wander forever in the printers world Dont like ==Dickens=={Q5686} dont know why I'l stock my literary cellar with his works later. ==Charlotte Bronte=={Q127332} was like ==DeQuincy=={Q317160}, what a nice married couple they would have been I must read ==Jane Eyre=={Q182961}. played a little on the piano its badly out of tune two keys have lost their voice. Dot has just read to me outlines of her proposed novel, the basis seems to be a marriage under duress I told her that in case of a marriage to put in bucketfulls of misery. This would make it realistic. speaking of realism in painting etc ==Steele Mackaye=={Q1668569} at a dinner given to H H Porter, ==Wm Winter=={Q8020478} and myself told us of a difinition of modern realism given by some frenchman whose name I have forgotten. "Realism, a dirty long haired painter sitting on the head of a bust of ==Shakespeare=={Q692} painting a pair of old boots covered with dung" The bell rings for supper I goe Sardines the principal attraction on seeing them was attacked by a stroke of vivid memory of some sardines I eat last winter that caused a rebellion in the labyrinth of my stomach could scarcely swallow them today

### Page 6

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA001 seq=6 left

They nearly did the "return ball" act. After supper Dot pitched a ball to me several dozen times first I ever tried to catch. It was a hard as ==Nero's=={Q1413} heart nearly broke my baby finger gave it up learned Dot and Maggie how to play ==Duck on the rock=={Q3040868} They both thought it great fun, and this is sunday My conscience seems to be oblivious of sunday it must be incrusted with a sort of irreligious tartar. If I was not so deaf I might go to church and get it taken off or at least loosened peccavi I will read the new version of the bible Holzer is going to use the old laboratory for the purpose of hatching chickens artificially by an electric incubator. He is very enthusiastic gave me full details he is a very patient and careful experimenter think he will succeed everything succeeded in that old laboratory Just think electricity employed to cheat a poor hen out of the pleasures of maternity Machine born chickens What is home without a mother I suggested to H that he vaccinate his hens with chicken pox virus, then the eggs would have their embryo heriditarily innoculated & none of the chickens would have the disease, for economys sake he could start with one hen and rooster. He being

### Page 7

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA001 seq=7 left

a scientific man with no farm experience I explained the necessity of having a rooster, he saw the force of this suggestion at once. The sun has left us on time, am going to read from the ==encyclopedia Brittanica=={Q455} to steady my nerves and go to bed early. I will shut my eyes and imagine a terraced abyss, each terrace occupied by a beautiful maiden to the first I will deliver my mind and they will pass it down down to the uttermost depths of silence and oblivion. Went to bed worked my imagination for a supply of maidens, only saw Mina Daisy & Mamma Scheme busted sleep.

.ve-graphic https://www.flickr.com/photos/mastatelibrary/9458639237/in/album-72157634970087059/

Woodside Villa Boston Harbor

